Dr. Millard-Ball’s approach to street rights-of-way provides a novel and contrarian perspective to the larger conversation of how we design and forms our cities and specifically, our streets. In his "The value of residential streets," he analyzes the amount of land dedicated to street and then estimates the value of that land and its opportunity costs. In his words, he questions “ ‘how wide should a street be,’ from an economic standpoint” (3). Though he analyzes an exhaustive account of the largest US counties with available data, I’m curious if segmenting and focusing on different land use patterns within counties might offer more appropriate insights to how streets are planned. The US is an outlier in the world in terms of its urban and suburban form, and there is wide array of how streets are planned within the US which he notes. The broad scope, though revealing and needed in the larger discourse on urban form, makes me eager to see data on a more localized dimension. His overall analysis, compliments what I’ve learned from M250: Transportation and Land Use. As much as I would like US policies to consider at least some of the social worth of land, our model isn’t likely to budge from its focus on exchange value. That being said, putting prices to street right-of-way reframes the conversation for policymakers, developers, and residents and makes all of us question, “how do we want our cities to function?” 

Questions:
* Have you considered the effect of changing street width on VMT or air quality? 
* How feasible is it for cities to change requirements for the widening of streets? On a broad level, what does it take to make cities change their urban form? 
* Where are you hoping to carry your research moving forward? How will data science play a role in this?
* Could you speak to the data science course you’re teaching this spring? 
